RFC 1: Faster Development Iterations (aka "CDK Watch") (#335)
aws/aws-cdk-rfcs: text/0001-cdk-update.md

---
rfc pr: [#335](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/pull/335)
tracking issue: https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/issues/1
---

# CDK Accelerate

Shorten the development iteration speed -- the "edit-compile-test" loop -- for
CDK applications.

## Working Backwards

### CHANGELOG

> - feat(cli): implement `cdk deploy --accelerated` and

Reviewer: Henrique had a great name for this: "Speedy-K". Don't know how to work that in. `cdk deploy --speedy`? ;)

> - feat(cli): implement `cdk deploy --accelerated` and

Reviewer 2: I feel like the name needs to reflect the non-production nature of this behavior. How about `--bypass` - could work.. Then we have `--bypass=always`, `--bypass=never` and `--bypass=auto`.

> - feat(cli): implement `cdk deploy --accelerated` and

Author: It's not clear what we're `--bypass`-ing if we do it that way, so I'm not inclined on that. I'm going to stick with `--accelerated` during development, and see if we find a different name that makes more sense going forward.

  `cdk deploy --accelerated --watch`

> ### README

Reviewer 2: Please add a section here that shows how the `cdk deploy --help` will describe this feature. Something like this:

```
cdk deploy --help

    --accelerated Perform accelerated deployment (`--accelerated=only` will fail if there are non-accelerated updates)
    -w --watch   Watch for file changes and deploy any updates. Implies --accelerated=auto

Examples:
    cdk deploy -w
    cdk deploy --accelerated
    cdk deploy --accelerated=only --watch
...    
```

Something like that.

The `cdk deploy --accelerated` ("CDK accelerate") command accelerates the
edit-compile-test loop for your CDK application during development by inspecting
the assets and stack resources in your application, identifying those that can
be updated in-place without a full CloudFormation stack udpate, and doing so
using AWS service APIs directly. It can either do this as an interactive command
or by running continuously and monitoring the input files.

For supported construct types (see list, below) the update command will identify
assets whose content has changed since the last time the CDK application was
deployed, and then publish them to their asset storage medium. It will then use
AWS SDK commands to directly modify the CDK resources to use the new asset
paths. The update command acts on one or more stacks in the application, and
will only perform the shortcut if all changes are updateable.

> A stack is "updateable" if the stack is explicitly marked as updateable, and it

Author: I deleted that paragraph per your subsequent comment, so we can pretend that these words never happened ;)

contains resources supported by the update process. At this time, only Lambda
Functions and ECS Services are supported, however more resource types will be
added to this list in the future.

At a high level, `accelerate` operates by reading the current state of the
stack, performing a stack diff on it, and if the stack is different only in
resources supported by update plugins, running those in lieu of a full
deployment.

#### Running Update

To run a one-shot update, you can invoke the `cdk deploy --accelerated` command
on some or all of your stacks:

```
$ cdk deploy --accelerated ApplicationStack
Checking stack ApplicationStack for possible accelerated update
 * LambdaFunction[AppFunction]: File asset changed
ApplicationStack can be updated
1/1 stacks can be updated:
Updating LambdaFunction in ApplicationStack
...
Update complete!
```

> If the update is to an attribute of the stack that cannot be updated, the

Author: Will do

command will offer to perform a full deployment:

```
$ cdk deploy --accelerated ApplicationStack
Checking stack ApplicationStack for possible accelerated update
 * LambdaFunction[Appfunction]: Function data changed
ApplicationStack has changes that can not be rapidly updated.

> Perform a full deployment of ApplicationStack? [Y/n]: Y

Author: That makes sense, and I'll implement it that way. Expect an update.

```
$ cdk deploy --accelerated ApplicationStack DataStack
Checking stack ApplicationStack for possible accelerated update
 * LambdaFunction[Appfunction]: Function data changed
ApplicationStack has changes that can not be rapidly updated.
Checking stack DataStack for possible accelerated update
 * LambdaFunction[StreamFunction]: File asset changed
DataStack can be updated
1/2 stacks can be updated: Perform a full deployment? [Y/n]? Y
Deploying ApplicationStack
...
Deploying DataStack
...
Done!
```

In addition to running in a one shot mode, the `cdk deploy --accelerated`
command also has a `--watch` command line option that enable it to monitor the
assets on disk and perform an update when they change.

```
$ cdk deploy --accelerated --watch ApplicationStack DataStack
Checking stack ApplicationStack for possible accelerated update
 * LambdaFunction[Appfunction]: No Changes
ApplicationStack can *not* be updated
Checking stack DataStack for possible accelerated update
 * LambdaFunction[StreamFunction]: No Changes

Watching stack inputs for changes:
 * LambdaFunction[Appfunction]: <spinner>
 * LambdaFunction[StreamFunction]: <spinner>

```

> The watcher can only watch for file changes. For Lambda code, that means that

Reviewer 3: This could catch someone by surprise. 

let's say I'm wailing away on lambda code and I add a new env variable, my IDE probably auto-saves files and when I flip back to my lambda code to continue changing code in the handler a deploy starts going out. 

Could a warning with prompt be provided in this case ?

directories will be watched for changes and zipped if they change. If the file
asset is a zip file, then the update will fire whenever that changes. The
existing docker asset builder will be used to watch for changes in local docker
images.

#### Resource Support

> - AWS Lambda `Function`

Author: Per our discussion, will add this.

  - file and directory assets
- AWS Fargate
  - image assets
- ECS
  - image assets

#### Future Support Plans

- StepFunctions
- API Gateway models

> ### PRESS RELEASE

Author: Sure, can do. It's in here because it was in the RFC template when I made this, but I'm not attached to it.

when working in development, directly updating the code in Lambda functions and
ECS services without a full CDK deployment. When the `accelerate` command can
identify that all changes in the stack have shortcut support, it will directly
publish the assets to AWS and then modify the underlying CDK resources directly.

> Using CDK accelerate dramatically improves our development iteration speed for
> Lambda functions. It cuts down the change-deploy-test cycle to seconds, where
> it was minutes before with a full cdk deploy each time. Unlike some other
> solutions, it actually updates our function running on AWS, which means there
> are no problems with the Lambda behaving differently during testing, and then
> in production - Adam Ruka, developer

Any CDK users who are deploying code to Lambda functions or containers on ECS or
Fargate can take advantage of this tool today, by configuring their stacks for
interactive update, and then using `cdk deploy --accelerated` instead of
`cdk deploy`.

## FAQ

### What are we launching today?

The `cdk deploy --accelerated` and `cdk deploy --accelerated --watch` commands,

> with support for rapid update of Lambda function code and Fargate images.

Reviewer 2: This is not just about lambda functions and fargate images and it's important that this design will take that into account.

### Why should I use this feature?

If you are developing a CDK application and want to publish your code changes
without waiting for CloudFormation to perform a full, safe stack update, you
should use this feature.

### Does it work when my Lambda is in Go or Java?

> To an extent, yes, but there are caveats. In order to update the lambda code you

Reviewer 4: What about if the user is using the native bundling functionality (like with [aws-lambda-go](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/latest/docs/aws-lambda-go-readme.html)? Will it be able to use the builtin asset bundler? Seems like it would be similar to how it would work for docker images.

Reviewer 2: Good point, we should add a FAQ

### What alternative solutions did you consider?

We considered SAM accelerate for a similar purpose, but SAM covers a relatively
small set of possible application structures in AWS, while CDK is intended to
address the whole set of them.

We also considered introspecting the CDK model ourselves, but concluded that
there was little value in reinventing the wheel, so to speak, when CDK already
had all of the information we'd need to deliver this.

For identifying stacks that are subject to accelerated deployment, we are
considering defining a full "Personal Development Stack" model, possibly based
off of information in the CDK `App` context.

### What is the high level implementation plan?

We will start from the prototype CDK update command that identifies the Lambda
resources and then publishes them using the CDK toolkit. We will expand it to
generalize it to use a simple plugin model to define the update mechanism, which
will allow for ECS support in addition to Lambda support.

Additionally, a `--watch` flag and a file watcher will be added to support
monitoring the inputs of assets for changes.

### Are there any open issues that need to be addressed later?

> - This RFC requires changes that may affect

Reviewer 2: Which changes?

Author: It no longer does, since I pulled the asset changes out. Deleting.

  [rfc-0092 - cdk assets](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/blob/master/text/0092-asset-publishing.md),
  as it entails changes to the asset model to support asset transformation and
  sources.

> - This RFC can be extended to add support for further pluggable asset and update

Reviewer 2: What's the design of the extensibility model? What does it take to add a new resource type? Can this be done outside of the CLI codebase or does it require a change to the CLI? (I am okay with both models).

Author: I don't actually know; typescript is new enough to me that I'm not sure what affordances the language has for extensibility that way. I _suspect_ that the best design here will be to actually embed the extensions in the constructs themselves, so that we can allow for this in constructs we haven't yet thought of, or even in higher level constructs that are amenable to this approach (think SAM applications, for example). I'll put that down in the RFC and we can discuss it.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is about typescript. Adding this to constructs sounds appealing but I am not sure how it will work.

I would start with articulating the straightforward solution and evolve from there.

---
rfc pr: [#335](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/pull/335)
tracking issue: https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/issues/1
---

> # CDK Update

Reviewer 2: We call this feature "CDK Watch" (see tracking issue) to signal to users that this feature _must not_ be used in production context

Author: I am not 100% on board with that change of name. "watch" implies a persistent process, whereas this _may_ do that, but may also be a one-shot.

Reviewer 5: We also discussed the possibility of `cdk accelerate` to align with similar features planned in the SAM Accelerate project.

Reviewer 2: I am okay with @skinny85's suggestion for the title.

We will make a decision about the "marketing name" later.

> Rapid and automatic updates for code-only changes to CDK application stacks.

Reviewer 2: The goal of this feature is to shorten the development iteration speed (also known as "inner loop"), so the scope of should be expanded. The feature is not just for code-only changes. We want CDK Watch to support things like API Gateway models, Step Functions, etc.

## Working Backwards

### CHANGELOG

- feat(cli): implement `cdk update` and `cdk update --watch` for asset updates

### README

> The `cdk update` command accelerates the asset deployments for your CDK

Reviewer 2: As mentioned above - this is not just about assets - we need to make sure we design this to allow adding "shortcut deployments" for any type of resource. Lambda handlers backed by assets are just one example.

> The `cdk update` command accelerates the asset deployments for your CDK

Reviewer 2: I think this needs to be part of the `deploy` command and not a separate command. Eventually. this is about deployment of CDK apps. It's not a separate operation.

If I work backwards from the user experience, I don't think users need to "care" if they are short-circuiting or not. They just want to develop their app and have the CLI deploy it continuously and as fast as possible.

So, primarily this feature should be supported via a `--watch` or (`-w`) switch to `cdk deploy`:

```shell
cdk deploy --watch
```

I expect this command to synth & deploy your app and then watch for changes, synthesize your `cdk.out` directory and perform deployments as needed (with or without short-circuiting). In case the deployment only includes resources that can be short-circuited, it would run the short-circuiting logic. Otherwise, it will perform a normal deployment.

We can add a switch called `--fast` or `--short-circuit` (or something else) which will control the behavior of this feature. It has three modes: `auto`, `never` and `only`.

1. `--fast=auto` - if the update includes only short-circuitable resources, it will apply them. If the update includes non-short-circuitable resources, it will perform a normal  deployment. This is the default if `--watch` is enabled.
2. `--fast=never` - this is the default for `cdk deploy` - never perform a short-circuit deployment.
3. `--fast=only` - only perform short-circuit deployments - fails if there are other updates.

Here are some examples:

```shell
cdk deploy --fast=never  # equivalent to "cdk deploy"
cdk deploy --fast=auto  # one-off, allows both normal and short-circuit updates
cdk deploy --fast=only   # one-off, only allows short-cirtcuitable updates
cdk deploy --watch --fast=auto    # continuous, equivalent to "cdk deploy --watch"
cdk deploy --watch --fast=only     # continuous, only allows short-circuitable updates
cdk deploy --watch --fast=never   # continuous, will perform normal CFN updates
```

Author: Here's where we differ; I think it's important to separate the deploy operation from this one, because they are _wildly_ different in what they require. `deploy` requires, generally, _CloudFormation_ access and a role that can interact with that set of tools. _`update`_ requires administrative level access to the account, and directly modifies the resources therein. That's different enough that I'm not comfortable, from a UX point of view, trying to bundle them into the same command. It would be confusing to have `deploy` actually need _different credentials_ depending on what flags you are passing it, whereas here we can document a clear boundary: When you are using `deploy`, you are acting in the role of the production deployment of the system, and when you are using `update` (name tbd :) ) you are acting in the role of the developer.

I would rather see more commands than fewer, and with a more clearly delineated set of requirements, capabilities, and responsibilities.

I think that the ability to perform a fast update vs a full deploy is useful -- the `--fast=auto` you mention above.

Reviewer 2: The CDK CLI commands are designed around user intent, not around their implementation. The "deploy" command includes asset publishing, diff checks, change set creation, etc. From a user standpoint, they just want to deploy.

Same here, the intent of the developer using this feature is to deploy their development stack and therefore this feature is a sub-feature of the "deploy" command and not a separate command.

> I would rather see more commands than fewer, and with a more clearly delineated set of requirements, capabilities, and responsibilities.

I don't think "more" or "less" is the guiding design principle. Our primary concern when we design APIs is the mental model of the user and their intent, and we want to do the "right thing" with the minimum amount of required cognitive load or leakage of the implementation.

I'll frame it differently - if CFN updates would have been very fast and we didn't need to implement these short-circuits (i.e. `cdk deploy` would always take 1s), do you think we would need a separate command to deploy stacks? The answer is _no_. Our users "don't care" that CFN updates take a long time - they just want to deploy their apps and go on with their lives. This is the experience we are striving for (and perhaps at some point CFN will be fast enough that we wouldn't need those short circuits).

Author: I think your counterfactual is understandable, but I think we need to put the user's expectations front and centre here, and one of the things that having a separate command does is put a very bright line around the behaviour, which is _wildly_ different from the `deploy` capability. Doing it in the `deploy` command is _possible_, sure; I'm not going to die on that hill, but I can tell you in my experience using CLIs, when you have a command that dramatically changes its mode of operation when some flags are changed -- not just by altering details, but a completely new mode! -- it is surprising and hard to reason about. "Are there combinations of flags that can cause this? What if there are other commands that have similar flags? Do those do the same thing?" A flag introduces the possibility of a cross-cutting function.

I don't believe this is the same thing as a deployment; I don't think we should put it in the same place.

assets whose content has changed since the publication of the CDK, assemble them
from sources if necessary, and then publish them to their asset storage medium.
It will then use AWS SDK commands to directly modify the CDK resources to use
the new asset paths. The update command acts on one or more stacks in the
application, and will only perform the shortcut if all changes are updateable.

A stack is "updateable" if the stack is explicitly marked as updateable, and it
contains any assets supported by the update process. At this time, only Lambda
and ECS images are supported, and so any stack with one of those is updateable.

At a high level, `update` operates by reading the current state of the stack,
performing a stack diff on it, and if the stack is different only in resources
supported by update plugins, running those in lieu of a full deployment.

#### Preparing Your Stack

In order to ensure that update is not invoked against production stacks, you
must explicitly designate your stack as being updateable in your application.
This is a stack-level property, set in the `StackProps` parameter to the stack
constructor:

```typescript

> const myDevelopmentStack = new ApplicationStack(app, "StackNameForDev", {

Reviewer 2: Since I don't think we are going to offer a dedicated command for this, but rather support this only via watch, this is not required.

Checking stack DataStack for possible asset update
 * LambdaFunction[StreamFunction]: File asset changed
DataStack can be updated
1/2 stacks can be updated: Perform a full deployment? [Y/n]? Y
Deploying ApplicationStack
...
Deploying DataStack
...
Done!
```

In addition to running in a one shot mode, the `cdk update` command also has a
`--watch` command line option that enable it to monitor the assets on disk and
perform an update when they change.

```
$ cdk update --watch ApplicationStack DataStack
Checking stack ApplicationStack for possible asset update
 * LambdaFunction[Appfunction]: No Changes
ApplicationStack can *not* be updated
Checking stack DataStack for possible asset update
 * LambdaFunction[StreamFunction]: No Changes

Watching stack inputs for changes:
 * LambdaFunction[Appfunction]: <spinner>
 * LambdaFunction[StreamFunction]: <spinner>

```

The watcher can only watch for file changes. For Lambda code, that means that
directories will be watched for changes and zipped if they change. If the file
asset is a zip file, then the update will fire whenever that changes. The
existing docker asset builder will be used to watch for changes in local docker
images.

> #### Resource Support

Reviewer 2: I'd like to make sure we also plan to support other things like step function models

Author: Agreed. I didn't plan to support them in an initial release, but SFN is a very obvious place where this functionality would be fantastic to have.

Deploying ApplicationStack
...
Deploying DataStack
...
Done!
```

In addition to running in a one shot mode, the `cdk deploy --accelerated`
command also has a `--watch` command line option that enable it to monitor the
assets on disk and perform an update when they change.

```
$ cdk deploy --accelerated --watch ApplicationStack DataStack
Checking stack ApplicationStack for possible accelerated update
 * LambdaFunction[Appfunction]: No Changes
ApplicationStack can *not* be updated
Checking stack DataStack for possible accelerated update
 * LambdaFunction[StreamFunction]: No Changes

Watching stack inputs for changes:
 * LambdaFunction[Appfunction]: <spinner>
 * LambdaFunction[StreamFunction]: <spinner>

```

The watcher can only watch for file changes. For Lambda code, that means that
directories will be watched for changes and zipped if they change. If the file
asset is a zip file, then the update will fire whenever that changes. The
existing docker asset builder will be used to watch for changes in local docker
images.

#### Resource Support

- AWS Lambda `Function`
  - file and directory assets
- AWS Fargate
  - image assets
- ECS
  - image assets

#### Future Support Plans

> - StepFunctions

Reviewer 6: Might be out of scope but it may be worth considering partial synthesis too. I'm not sure if other constructs could benefit from this besides state machines.

When writing [StateMachines](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/latest/docs/@aws-cdk_aws-stepfunctions.StateMachine.html) in CDK, you lose the workflow visualization and it's harder to understand the flow without seeing the graph. The only way to see it is by deploying the stack and viewing the created resource in the console. AWS Toolkit for Visual Studio Code supports state machine visualization from JSON or YAML which can be generated from `cdk synth`. But we don't need the full CFN template or reference resolution, just the state machine structure. Being able to view the graph even before deploying to get the JSON definition would shorten the dev cycle even further.

Reviewer 7: That's a good suggestion @wong-a, but this is tricky. It's really difficult to perform partial synthesis in CDK, because the various constructs can reference each other, including Stacks. So, performing partial synthesis can result in very weird errors because of generating incorrect CloudFormation templates.

and asset types implemented in the CDK directly. The plugin mechanism for
resource refreshing will allow other resource types to be supported by either
community or vendor addition.

## Internal FAQ

### Why are we doing this?

The overhead of developing a Lambda application using the CDK is significant,
since each code change currently requires a CloudFormation stack update to apply
new code, _or_ manually introducing drift to the application by inspecting the
stack and manipulating the resources directly.

The CDK accelerate tool will allow the CDK to handle the resource changes rather
than this manual process, introducing some implicit safety and reducing the
manual labor of the update.

### Why should we _not_ do this?

This solution has a risk of introducing a deployment tool that users might use
to shortcircuit the safe CloudFormation deployment process. If a user runs CDK
update on their production stack, it can perform updates without adequate stack
update safety checks. Releasing a public tool with instant update capability
into the CDK may not be the right way to make this functionality public. To

> mitigate this, `accelerate` only runs on stacks that have explicitly opted in to

Reviewer: Interesting. This isn't mentioned anywhere else, and no code sample is shown... or have I missed it?

Author: I'll have to pull this out; it's not actually part of the final RFC.

the capability.

### What changes are required to enable this change?

1. An implementation of the `cdk deploy --accelerated` command in the CDK
   toolkit that can examine the Application stacks for updates that can be
   applied and apply them.
2. The CDK toolkit must be able to query a CDK resource for the set of
   filesystem resources it must monitor for the `--watch` operation, and run a
   filesystem monitor for that.

### Is this a breaking change?

No, it is not.

> ### What are the drawbacks of this solution?

Reviewer 6: Isn't stack drift another drawback since mutations are happening outside of CloudFormation? Drift isn't a big concern for development stacks, but there's nothing stopping anyone from doing it in prod stack. 

The main concern would be situations where the regular `cdk deploy` using CloudFormation fails due to out of stack mutations. Perhaps that's mitigated by restricting accelerated deployments to certain constructs and preventing resource deletion?

Author: It's both a drawback _and_ the primary mechanism of the tool, so it's a bit hard to say one way or the other. Bug and feature, if you will :)

- Updating like this still entails a fair amount of preprocesing time, since for
  complex projects (Golang and Java lambdas, for example) there remains a
  compilation step.

> - The update model requires the AWS account used to publish the stack to also

Reviewer: Oh shit good point. This is not going to fare well with the current `deploy-action`...

---
rfc pr: [#335](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/pull/335)
tracking issue: https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/issues/1
---

# CDK Update

Shorten the development iteration speed -- the "edit-compile-test" loop -- for
CDK applications.

## Working Backwards

### CHANGELOG

- feat(cli): implement `cdk update` and `cdk update --watch` for asset updates

### README

The `cdk update` command accelerates the edit-compile-test loop for your CDK
application during development by inspecting the assets and stack resources in
your application, identifying those that can be updated in-place without a full
CloudFormation stack udpate, and doing so using AWS service APIs directly. It
can either do this as an interactive command or by running continuously and
monitoring the input files.

For supported construct types (see list, below) the update command will identify

> assets whose content has changed since the publication of the CDK, assemble them

Reviewer 5: Should "since the publication of the CDK" be "since the last time the CDK application was deployed" ?

from sources if necessary, and then publish them to their asset storage medium.
It will then use AWS SDK commands to directly modify the CDK resources to use
the new asset paths. The update command acts on one or more stacks in the
application, and will only perform the shortcut if all changes are updateable.

> A stack is "updateable" if the stack is explicitly marked as updateable, and it
> contains any assets supported by the update process. At this time, only Lambda
> and ECS images are supported, and so any stack with one of those is updateable.

Reviewer 7: This paragraph is not what we want, I think - the support is based on the types of resources, not on types of Assets.

I would re-word it to be something like:

```suggestion
A stack is "updateable" if the stack is explicitly marked as updateable, and it
contains resources supported by the update process. At this time, only Lambda
Functions and ECS Services are supported, however more resource types will be added to this list in the future.
```

At a high level, `update` operates by reading the current state of the stack,
performing a stack diff on it, and if the stack is different only in resources
supported by update plugins, running those in lieu of a full deployment.

#### Preparing Your Stack

In order to ensure that update is not invoked against production stacks, you
must explicitly designate your stack as being updateable in your application.
This is a stack-level property, set in the `StackProps` parameter to the stack
constructor:

```typescript
const myDevelopmentStack = new ApplicationStack(app, "StackNameForDev", {
    ...

>     interactiveUpdate: true,

Reviewer 7: Whether or not we want to make this change, I think the name `interactiveUpdate` doesn't represent the functionality in this RFC very well.

Maybe something like `allowsShortCircuitDeployment`?

Author: Let's wordsmith the flag as a last detail, but I think there's room for improvement once we agree on the command name.

});
```

The `interactiveUpdate` property is optional, and when present and `true` the
`cdk update` functionality will be executed on the stack.

#### Running Update

To run a one-shot update, you can invoke the `cdk update` command on some or all
of your stacks:

```

> $ cdk update ApplicationStack

Reviewer 7: I don't like the fact that you have to specify the Stack name on the command line, _and_ mark it as `interactiveUpdate: true`. Feels like irritating double-booking to me; why do I have to tell you twice that I want to update this stack with `cdk update`?

I would either have the property on `Stack`, _or_ specifying the names through CLI arguments. Not both.

Author: The stack is specified because it's possible to have multiple stacks and only want to update one of them, or to watch one, etc. This, and it matches the usage of stacks elsewhere in the CDK cli. I don't like specifying the stacks either, but it _is_ necessary if you have "stages" of stacks.

Reviewer 7: Then there's no reason for having the `interactiveUpdate` flag at all, and I would remove it.

Author: There is, though! Using an at-work example, for a single application that deploys many stacks, only a very small subset of those stacks should be allowed to be updated using this mechanism, and the others need to be denied by policy somewhere. One way that can be done is to explicitly identify which stacks in an app are suitable for it, another is to assume that the user is going to "know" the ones that are permitted in practice. How, otherwise, would a "production" stack prevent a rapid update, if your app consists of multiple stacks, each corresponding to a deployment stage?

Reviewer 5: I'm wondering why we are concerned with which ones are permitted, when we are targeting local developer accounts?

had all of the information we'd need to deliver this.

### What is the high level implementation plan?

We will start from the prototype CDK update command that identifies the Lambda
resources and then publishes them using the CDK toolkit. We will expand it to
generalize it to use a simple plugin model to define the update mechanism, which
will allow for ECS support in addition to Lambda support.

Additionally, a `--watch` flag and a file watcher will be added to support
monitoring the inputs of assets for changes.

### Are there any open issues that need to be addressed later?

- This RFC requires changes that may affect
  [rfc-0092 - cdk assets](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/blob/master/text/0092-asset-publishing.md),
  as it entails changes to the asset model to support asset transformation and
  sources.
- This RFC can be extended to add support for further pluggable asset and update
  targets.
- This RFC will be enhanced significantly when the CDK asset model is enriched
  to support asset construction directly.
- Direct support for monitoring container repositories for changes (possibly via
  polling) instead of only supporting local rebuild.

> ## Appendix
> 
> Feel free to add any number of appendices as you see fit. Appendices are
> expected to allow readers to dive deeper to certain sections if they like. For
> example, you can include an appendix which describes the detailed design of an
> algorithm and reference it from the FAQ.

Reviewer 7: As long as there are no appendices, let's get rid of this section:

```suggestion
```

Done!
```

> In addition to running in a one shot mode, the `cdk deploy --accelerated`

Reviewer 5: Will we also have a short form, like `cdk deploy -a -w` ?

Author: That's a good question; the space of single-letter flags is much smaller than the long option ones, so that depends on if we think it's worth claiming one for this feature. I think "no" for `--watch` -- that's not going to be run as often, by its very nature -- and I lean towards "no" for `--accelerate` if we use that, because I can't see an unambiguous short name for it (`-a` would be better as a shortcut for `--all` for example)

Author: +1

### What is the high level implementation plan?

We will start from the prototype CDK update command that identifies the Lambda

> resources and then publishes them using the CDK toolkit, and extend that to

Reviewer 2: Rename "toolkit" with "CLI" please (we no longer use this term)

Author: Shall do

implement support for ECR images associated with ECS and Fargate tasks, API
Gateway definitions, and Step Function workflows. Those will be implemented
directly in the toolkit code as part of the launch for the feature. The toolkit
implementation will be designed to conform to an interface that provides:

- Watchable filesystem resources
- A way of updating the watchable resource list
- A method for determining whether the construct can be updated in place
- A method for updating the construct in place

If changes to the CDK constructs are necessary to implement the accelerated
development process, we will make those changes as well. In the longer term we
must lay the groundwork for moving the logic defining the update process into
the Construct library, which implies a design for passing these values by way of
the Cloud Assembly.

> We will implement a filesystem watcher for the CDK toolkit that works on one or

Reviewer 2: The watch list could be language-dependent so at least we should add support for specifying a set of watch-exclusion globs that will be applied to `cdk init` templates for each language. For example, for TypeScript, we will likely want to exclude `node_modules/**/*` from watch

Author: Good idea.
